# Project 2 - LZ77 Coding

### Author:
- Name: Matheus Costa de Oliveira
- Registration: 17/0019039

### Course Information.
- Subject: Fundamentals of Signal Compression
- Department of Electrical Engineering
- University of Brasilia

___

## Files Description.

### LZ77 Algorithm

- The LZ77 Dictionary Technique is implemented by the [LZ77](LZ77.py) Python file. 

- The LZ77 class does not handle files. Therefore, sequences and triples should be used as Numpy arrays.

### Adaptative Huffman Coding

- It is possible to further encode the triples generated by the LZ77 with the Adaptative Huffman Coding implementation available in the [Adaptative_Huffman_Coding](https://github.com/matcosta23/Adaptative_Huffman_Coding) repository.
- **This repository can only be imported by LZ77 if the Huffman algorithm repository is within the repository presented here. If Adaptive Huffman Coding is in a sibling or parent directory, its use is not possible.**

### Encoder

- The [encoder](encoder.py) file is responsible for receiving a file and creating an associated *.bin* file.
- This procedure should be carried out from the following command line:

```bash
python encoder.py --file_to_compress <original_file_path> \
                  --binary_file_path <desired_path_for_bin_file> \
                  --search_buffer_length <buffer_size>
                  --look_ahead_buffer_length <buffer_size> \
                  --second_enconding_step
```
**Observations:**

1. The unique required argument is *file_to_compress*.
2. The default values are *"binary_files/<orig_file_name>.bin"*, *31* and *15*, respectively.
3. *second_enconding_step* is a flag. If the user does not want to use it, just don't.

### Decoder

- Decoding the binary file generated by the encoder is done with the [decoder](decoder.py) file.
- The command line is:
```bash
python decoder.py --binary_file_path <original_file_path> \
                  --decoded_file_path <desired_path_for_bin_file>
```

**Observations:**

1. The only mandatory parameter is *binary_file_path*.
2. If *decoded_file_path* is not provided, a *decoded_files* directory is created.

### Full Coding

- It is possible to encode, decode and compare achieved rate with entropy at once.
- This is done from the [file_coding_with_LZ77](file_coding_with_LZ77.py) file.
- The command line is:
```bash
python file_coding_with_LZ77.py \
            --file_to_compress <original_file_path> \
            --search_buffer_length <buffer_size>
            --look_ahead_buffer_length <buffer_size> \
            -2, -c \
            --binary_file_path <desired_path_for_bin_file> \
            --decoded_file_path <desired_path_for_decoded_file>
```
**Observations:**

1. As with the encoder, the only required parameter is *file_to_compress*.
2. All the other arguments have the same default values.
3. The flag *-2* is equivalent to *--second_enconding_step*.
4. The flag *-c* disregards values passed for the buffer sizes and performs the encoding with the pairs (15, 7), (31, 15) and (63, 31), where the largest value is always the size of the Search Buffer.